# Internationalization Configuration

The front-end project has integrated `Vue i18n`, which automatically requests the corresponding language text from the backend based on the current language during requests. The backend part is not explained here; interested parties can refer to the source code.

The front-end currently supports three language packs: `Simplified Chinese, Traditional Chinese, and English`.

## Plugin Recommendations

- If you are using `vscode`, it is recommended to install [i18n Ally](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Lokalise.i18n-ally).
- If you are using `webStorm`, it is recommended to install [Easy i18n](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/16316-easy-i18n).

The above plugins can greatly assist you in perfecting the language packs.

## Language Pack Definition

::: tip Must Read
`Vue i18n` supports two types of language packs: **global language packs** and **local language packs**. Local language packs, also known as in-file language packs, are only used within `.vue` files. Global language packs support `.vue`, `.tsx`, and `.jsx` file types.

Language packs are defined using `yaml` format syntax, which is much more comfortable to write than `json`.

If you need to extend other languages, pay attention to the format; otherwise, the defined language pack will not be found. The format is: `language identifier[language name]`
- en[English].yaml
- zh_CN[Simplified Chinese].yaml
- zh_TW[Traditional Chinese].yaml
:::

### Global Language Packs
Global language packs are stored in three forms, and they will all be automatically scanned and imported by the system:
- Under the `src/locales` directory
- Under the `src/modules/<module name>/locales` directory
- Under the `src/plugins/<plugin name>/locales` directory

::: danger Important Notes
The global language packs under **modules** and **plugins** must have the same file names as those under `src/locales`. Otherwise, the console will display warnings about missing `key` (which can be quite annoying).
:::

### Local Language Packs
All `.vue` files in the project support local language packs. You just need to define the `i18n` tag within the `.vue` file, as shown below:
```vue
<i18n lang="yaml">
zh_CN:
  hello: 你好
zh_TW:
  hello: 你好
en:
  hello: hello
</i18n>

<script setup lang="ts">
</script>

<template>
</template>

<style>
</style>
```

## Usage

First, you can manually import `Vue i18n` yourself. Once you have the `i18n` object, you can use the `t` method of the `i18n` object to retrieve the text, as shown below:
```ts
import { i18n } from 'vue-i18n'

// Global mode
const { t } = i18n()

// Local mode
const { t } = i18n({
  inheritLocale: true,
  useScope: 'local',
})
```

However, the front-end project has already encapsulated a method to get the `i18n` object. You just need to use the `useTrans()` method within the `setup` function, as shown below:

```ts
// useTrans() is automatically imported
const trans = useTrans()

// useTrans() returns an object containing both global and local objects:
// trans.globalTrans and trans.localTrans

trans.globalTrans('global.title')
trans.localTrans('title')

// You can also use it directly; it will first look for the global key, and if not found, it will look for the local key
useTrans('title')
```

In addition, there is a `useLocalTrans()` method, which only returns the local `i18n` object and needs to be manually imported, as shown below:
```ts
import useLocalTrans from '@/hooks/useLocalTrans'

// Only looks for keys within this file
const t = useLocalTrans()

// Two ways to use it
t('title')
useLocalTrans('title')
```